Dask is an open source library
designed to parallelize and
scale out Python code, with a
particular focus on numerical
and analytical computing.
At its core, Dask enables large
scale computations to be
executed efficiently on single
machines or across distributed
clusters.
In this notebook, we will show
how to use Dask and Crate DB for
the large scale import of
weather readings from 1250
cities globally.
This reach data set can be found
on Kaggle and includes metrics
like temperature ranges,
precipitation, wind speed, and
more, allowing us to analyze
weather patterns
comprehensively.
As a first step, we set up our
environment by running a pip
command.
This command installs Dask
alongside Pandas for data
manipulation and SQLAlchemy
for database operations.
In this notebook, we're working
with three key data sets.
Daily weather data data set
contains the weather
measurements across various
cities.
Cities data set provides details
on the cities included in our
weather data set.
Similarly, Countries data set
contains information about the
countries corresponding to the
cities in our data set.
To efficiently handle these data
sets, especially the potentially
large parquet file containing
daily weather data, we use Dasks
Dataframe API.
By leveraging Dasks, we can
handle large data sets that
exceed the memory capacity of a
single machine, processing data
in chunks without loading the
entire data set into memory at
once.
Once we've loaded the data, we
examine its structure and
content.
We look for the number of
records and the data types of
each column and get a glimpse of
the first few rows to understand
the data format.
The next step loads data into
crate DB.
Crate DB is uniquely equipped to
handle large data sets like ours
with efficiency and flexibility.
To take full advantage of Crate
DB's capabilities, including
full text indexes, we'll
manually create our tables
before the import.
The two connection strings
illustrate how to establish a
connection to our CrateDB
instance depending on whether
your database is hosted locally
or in the cloud.
For those using CrateDB Cloud,
the platform's import mechanism
is the most straightforward and
efficient method as it directly
uploads data to a staging area
for import, minimizing network
transfer.
However, if you're running CrateDB
locally or prefer a more
hands on approach, dasks
parallelized data frame import
is highly recommended.
Unlike pandas which is single
threaded, DAS allows us to
utilize multiple CPUs and
partition the data for parallel
import, significantly speeding
up the process.
When importing data with Dasks,
it's crucial to balance the
workload to avoid overloading
the database.
Experimenting with the chunk
size can help find the optimal
setting for your specific CrateDB
configuration.
For example, a chunk size of
10,000 records has been shown to
work well on a single node CrateDB
setup with four gigabytes of
heap memory.
Running the import on a CrateDB
instance with adequate resources
can yield impressive
performance.
In one scenario, a Docker
containerized CrateDB with five
CPUs and four gigabytes of heap
space achieved around 80,000
inserts per second, including
indexing.
To conclude, importing data into
CrateDB requires A thoughtful
approach to table creation,
connection management, and data
import strategy.
By leveraging CrateDB's full
text indexing and Dasks parallel
processing capabilities, we can
efficiently import large data
sets while optimizing for query
performance.